DOC-1562: Added 5.10.4 release notes (#2414)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: release-notes/release-notes5104.md

---
layout: default
title: TinyMCE 5.10.4
title_nav: TinyMCE 5.10.4
description: Release notes for TinyMCE 5.10.4
keywords: releasenotes bugfixes
---

## Overview

{{site.productname}} 5.10.4 was released for {{site.enterpriseversion}} and {{site.cloudname}} on Wednesday, May 4<sup>th</sup>, 2022. It includes {{site.productname}} 5.10.4 and additional changes to premium plugins. These release notes provide an overview of the changes for {{site.productname}} 5.10.4, including:

- [Accompanying Premium Plugin changes](#accompanyingpremiumpluginchanges)
- [General bug fixes](#generalbugfixes)
- [Upgrading to the latest version of TinyMCE 5](#upgradingtothelatestversionoftinymce5)

{{site.releasenotes_for_stable}}

## Accompanying Premium Plugin changes

The following premium plugin updates were released alongside {{site.productname}} 5.10.4.

### Spell Checker Pro 2.5.1

The {{site.productname}} 5.10.4 release includes an accompanying release of the **Spell Checker Pro** premium plugin.

> **Spell Checker Pro** 2.5.1 fixes the page focus incorrectly changing when spellchecking is triggered on multiple editors after scrolling.

Reviewer: +In the previous release, **Spell Checker Pro** would change page focus incorrectly when spellchecking was triggered on multiple editors after scrolling.
+
+**Spell Checker Pro** 2.5.1, which accompanies this release, corrects this: page focus no longer changes in this circumstance.

The above is a sort-of Cause-Consequence-Fix-Result (CCFR) re-write. I still have questions nonetheless (arising out of ignorance).

What is ‘page focus’? I presume it means the page/object the end-user expects to take input suddenly stops being such. Is this a fair presumption?

What is ‘scrolling’? An end-user action (eg, using the mouse’s scroll wheel or dragging the scroll wheel)? Or something programmatic (eg an auto-scroll to the end of the loaded document)? Or either?

Author: `page focus` is what element is focused on the current page/document/window. `scrolling` is any form of page movement (keyboard, mouse, etc...), that triggers a `scroll` event.

Author: ```suggestion
In the previous release, **Spell Checker Pro** would change page focus incorrectly when spellchecking was triggered on multiple editors after scrolling.

**Spell Checker Pro** 2.5.1, which accompanies this release, corrects this: page focus no longer changes in this circumstance.
```
I think this is what you were suggesting? The last part doesn't make sense to me though. Maybe it should be something like this instead?
```
**Spell Checker Pro** 2.5.1, which accompanies this release, corrects this so that the page focus no longer moves in this circumstance.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous release, **Spell Checker Pro** would change page focus incorrectly when spellchecking was triggered on multiple editors after a `scroll` event.

**Spell Checker Pro** 2.5.1, which accompanies this release, corrects this so that the page focus no longer moves in this circumstance.
```

Reviewer: This is your suggested paragraphs with one small tweak:

s/scrolling/a `scroll` event./

The tweak goes for the developer-centric phrase as being both more cause-specific and more audience-specific.

For information on the Spell Checker Pro plugin, see: [Spell Checker Pro plugin]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/premium/tinymcespellchecker/).

## General bug fixes

{{site.productname}} 5.10.4 provides fixes for the following bugs:

- Inline toolbars flickered when switching between editors.

> - Multiple inline toolbars were shown if focused too quickly.

Reviewer: re *too quickly*.

Can this be more specifically defined?

Author: Can't be changed at this stage sorry, as this is a direct copy of the changelog for this section. So this needed to be fixed last week before we tagged and released community.

Author: To clarify anyways, `too quickly` I believe just means if you focus one editor and then focus another editor within a very small amount of time (not sure on the actual time) then that's what it's referring to about "too quickly".

Reviewer 2: The fix in tinymce is very very difficult to reproduce. I don’t think a human could do it; only a script. We discovered it via our premium spelling plugin, which triggers it when scrolling the page across an inline editor.
